SCITT Usage Examples (#46)
scitt-community/scitt-web: examples/feed-basic-example.md

---
layout: page
title:  # Feed Basic Example
parent: Examples
nav_order: 20
---

# Feed Basic Example

SCITT provides the registration, persistance and querying of a series of Transparent Statements over the life of the Artifact.

Producers and Third Parties create and register Signed Statements on one or more SCITT Services. And Consumers query one or more SCITT Services for information about software they wish to evaluate.

> To demonstrate how SCITT Implements this workflow a collection of Scenarios and examples are provided using the [SCITT Community API Emulator](https://github.com/scitt-community/scitt-api-emulator) and [SCITT.xyz](https://scitt.xyz)

Reviewer: also caps in scenario

> ## Scenario: Series of Transparent Statements Over the Life of an Artifact

Reviewer: Is this scenarios related to https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-scitt-software-use-cases-01.html#name-security-analysis-of-a-soft? If so, what are the differences?

Author: I'd suggest this is a more detailed explanation of the usecase, consistent with our goals from the [Charter](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/scitt/about/), as captured here: [Architectural Model: Actors, Interactions, Terminology](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/scitt/about/#architectural-model-actors-interactions-terminology)

If we like this level of detail, I can PR it back to the use case document. 
Shall we iterate here, and then PR back? Or, move this PR back to the [use-case repo](https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-software-use-cases)?

Reviewer 2: `draft-ietf-scitt-software-use-cases` is a WG adopted document, this is a community blog.

You need WG consensus to update WG adopted items, the blog can be updated by the people who control the website.

I suggest resolving this comment thread and taking no action.

Reviewer 2: Continue discussion on https://github.com/scitt-community/scitt-web/issues/43

As a producer publishes a software artifact, they make a SCITT Feed available to provide a series of statements about the Artifact.

For this example, we'll use the [Wabbit Networks](./fictitious-companies.md#wabbit-networks) Network Monitor Software.
Using SCITT Terminology, the Artifact is a specific versioned release of the net-monitor binary.
And a Feed is created to provide the series of Statements about the Artifact.

> Put simply, a Feed represents a specific Artifact, with a series of statements placed on the Feed.

Reviewer: This is a thesis that we should cross check on the list, right?

Author: From [3. Terminology: feed](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture-02.html#section-3-2.10.1)
> an identifier chosen by the Issuer for the Artifact. For every Issuer and Feed, the Registry on a Transparency Service contains a sequence of Signed Statements about the same Artifact. In COSE, Feed is a dedicated header attribute in the protected header of the Envelope.

We have open PRs to clarify how a feed accomplishes this task, but do we think this is different?

Reviewer 2: This community website does not reflect IETF consensus.

This thread should be resolved.

2. At the time of release, Wabbit Networks publishes SBOMs in both SPDX and Cyclone DX Formats, as well as a Security Scan Result from [Cosmic Security](./fictitious-companies.md#cosmic-security)
3. As time progresses, and new issues are discovered about components used within the build and release of the net-monitor binary, Wabbit Networks releases updated Scan Reports and updated VEX reports
4. As new patches are released, Wabbit Networks updates the Feed with information that informs of the new patched version, which is likely a new Feed
5. As new versions are released, Wabbit Networks updates the relevant Feeds of the new versions, which are likely new Feeds
6. As versions become out of support, Wabbit Networks publishes statements to the feed, indicating End of Support, (also known as EOL)
7. As Wabbit Networks as third parties provide security reviews each Feed, the third party may submit their Signed Statement (the security review) to each Feed

## Overview of the Steps

Ultimately, a Feed is the identifier used to query a series of statements about an Artifact.

A few constructs are assumed:

> - A Feed should be owned by the issuer of the artifact

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
- A Feed should is defined by the issuer of the artifact
```

> - Other parties may reference the same Feed, making additional statements, signed with their identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Other parties can reference the same Feed, making additional statements, signed with their identity
```

>   - Other parties, if permitted by the registration policy of the publishers SCITT instance, may publish Signed Statements to the same Feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Other parties, if permitted by the registration policy of the publishers SCITT instance, can publish Signed Statements to the same Feed
```

>   - To enable autonomy, other parties may publish Signed Statements to a different SCITT instance, about the same Feed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To enable autonomy, other parties can publish Signed Statements to a different SCITT instance, about the same Feed
```
